# 3D-Watermarking
A Research Project on 3D Watermarking using Artificial Immune System algorithm

## Abstract
With the explosion of multimedia content over Internet, there is a need for copyright protection of digital content. Whether it is music albums swapped over peer to peer networks or video files uploaded over websites such as YouTube or 3D models such as Shrek, artists need to protect their ownership of content. 3D Watermarking provides a deterrent to piracy of 3D models by embedding a hidden piece of information in the original content.
The vertebrate immune system is a robust and powerful information process system that demonstrates features such as distributed control, parallel processing and adaptation and learning via experience. Artificial Immune Systems (AIS) are machine-learning algorithms that embody some of the principles and attempt to take advantages of the benefits of natural immune systems for use in tackling complex problem domains. The Clonal Selection Algorithm (CLONALG) is one such system inspired by the clonal selection theory of acquired immunity, which has shown success on broad range of engineering problem domains. The focus of this work is the CLONALG algorithm, specifically the techniques history, previous research and algorithm function. In addition, this work seeks to take desirable elements from CLONALG implementations and devise a clonal selection based classification algorithm. Competence with the CLONALG algorithm is demonstrated in terms of theory and application. The algorithm is analyzed from the perspective of desirable features for an immune inspired classifier and a new clonal selection inspired technique called the Clonal Selection Classification Algorithm is proposed, designed, specified and preliminary tested. The technique is shown to be robust, self-tuning (in terms of resources used), insensitive to user parameters and competitive as a classification system on common problem domains.

